[Music]
thank you very much I can't wait to hear
what I have to say it is a great
privilege for me to be with you here at
the historic Oxford Union where you are
committed to debate and free speech
something that is lacking in the United
States these days I salute you and I am
deeply gratified and grateful for your
invitation I am reminded of course of
the four stages of Fame
those being who is Roger stone get me
Roger stone who is Roger stone pardon me
get me a Roger stone type who is Roger
stone it is been my pleasure to work for
four American presidents to be involved
in ten presidential campaigns one of
them for a Libertarian Party candidate
governor Gary Johnson the others for
presidents Richard Nixon Ronald Reagan
my great friend and that great Patriot
Senator Bob Dole George Herbert Walker
Bush of which I had some regret and of
course Donald Trump but I must say that
the 2016 election was an election in
which all of those things that I thought
were absolutely necessary and true about
American politics about modern politics
in the age of mass communications all
proved not to be true or at least to be
suspended at least for the time of this
most recent election Donald Trump was
successfully elected president
without benefit of sophisticated
professional polling focus groups
message testing hundreds of millions of
dollars of paid broadcast advertising he
was a candidate who operated solely and
completely on the basis of his instincts
on the basis of his gut
he had no speech writers he had no press
secretary he had no one preparing
talking points for him he is very much
his own man
there is no Karl Rove in Trump land
there never has been and I suspect there
never will be certainly not Roger stone
and most definitely not Steve Danon yet
despite the fact that he was massively
outspent very hard to get precise
numbers because of the intersection of
hard and soft money but a reasonable
estimate would be that the forces
supporting his opponent Hillary Clinton
spent somewhere in the neighborhood of
two billion dollars perhaps a bit more
those supporting the election of Donald
Trump although not down from himself
spent about two hundred and thirty seven
million dollars additionally I would
make a case to you that the old media
and the new media were both actively
working against his election the old
media which I define is the three US
based television networks and then kind
of later the two cable news networks
while they certainly gave him a
disproportionate amount of coverage
during the primaries they did that not
to boost Donald Trump but because
somebody this free willing somebody this
ones
did is interesting and being interesting
in politics is the most important thing
the only thing worse in politics than
being wrong is being boring and Donald
Trump as a candidate was never boring
and that drove ratings and ratings drove
their ability to charge more for their
commercial advertising but I would also
argue that in the general election phase
of the campaign that coverage turned a
net largely negative I would also make a
case to you that the new media was
rigged against him in the sense that for
example at Google when the Trump
campaign put out a press release it was
marked as promotion but when the Hillary
Clinton campaign put out a press release
it was marked as update that is the
difference between literally millions of
people reading it and others not and
that's just one example of the bias I'll
talk a little more about that later so I
think it would be a mistake to view his
election solely as the rise of an
interesting and flamboyant populist I
think far more than that it was a
rejection of a two-party duopoly who
although they endeavored to sound
different at election time really were
bringing the country one set of policies
the Republicans and the Democrats the
elites of both parties working together
the bushes and the Clintons whose
policies in truth were largely
indistinguishable brought us endless
foreign war where our inherent national
interests were never clear the erosion
of our civil liberties the reading of
our emails the reading of our text
messages the monitoring of our phone
calls the collection of metadata
on Americans in violation the Fourth
Amendment of the Constitution borrowing
and spending in debt that my grandsons
children will end up paying for
immigration policies that are unfair
that that do not reward those who wait
their turn and go through the process
that have rendered some of our
neighborhoods and streets unsafe
international trade policies that we
were promised by both the bushes and the
Clintons were the economic panacea which
instead saw the jobs out of America as a
populist independent candidate Ross
Perot once said and economic policies
that brought us devastation of our
central part of our country leaving the
Rust Belt destitute these are the
policies of the Republicans and the
Democrats working together these are the
policies of the political elites these
are the policies of the bushes in the
Clintons so how for example could Barack
Obama promised us that gun kwant animaux
would be closed but it's still open why
could they promise us that the war in
Afghanistan would be ended but it's
still going on why did we marched off to
war in Iraq where our inherent national
interest was never clear why did those
Wars have the bipartisan support of the
elites of both parties I believe Donald
Trump's an election was a rejection of
all of that
now I also having worked for a number of
presidents and spent some time in
Washington recognize that when the
establishment cannot defeat you they
first try to discredit you when they
can't do that they seek to co-opt you
yes I am disappointed that we are still
in Afghanistan yes I think sending more
troops as we have done the large
troop deployment today is an era yes I
do not think Donald Trump can accomplish
everything in one year but it is
interesting to me that that we were told
that if he was elected our stock market
would collapse our economy would go into
deep recession under this president we
have created almost two million new jobs
the stock market has roared to
unprecedented levels unemployment has
hit all-time lows african-american
unemployment one of the most intractable
problems in the country is that the
longest period ever yes I want to see
his plan to rebuild our urban centers he
promised us to it in the campaign but
he's only been president for one year
and now you have multinational
corporations who had left repatriating
money back to the United States coming
back to the United States companies like
Apple hardly Trump supporters announcing
that their repatriating 250 million
dollars and they're going to spend three
hundred and fifty billion dollars in a
us-based expansion Ford and others by
any stretch of the imagination the
president has had a successful first
year now the reaction to his election is
is something that is worth looking at
first there was an argument that his
election should be overturned by the
electoral college
and mr. Podesta the manager of Hillary
Clinton's campaign a man who spent 2
billion dollars to get his brains beat
in suggested the electoral college
should be briefed on the Russian
collusion well it would have been a very
short briefing because so far the claim
of Russian collusion has
to be a delusion there yet despite the
fact that we've had multi-million dollar
taxpayer financed investigations by the
House and the Senate
we do not have any evidence of any
effective action of anybody in the Trump
campaign or the Trump family or Trump
associates who successfully coordinated
or colluded or conspired with the
Russian state we do know that the
handful of aides around Hillary Clinton
made millions of dollars from the
oligarchs around Latimer Putin there's
the gas deal the uranium deal which you
may have heard of the banking deal and
so on and the president has the
intractable opposition of what we call
the deep state now some people say well
Stone you're a conspiracy theorist for
example you said that maybe Lee Harvey
Oswald didn't kill Kennedy and didn't
act alone well perhaps we learned in the
documents just released that the
government has lied from the beginning
about their knowledge of mr. Oswald
where he came from and his various
movements I wrote a book about this
which is a New York Times bestseller no
I am NOT a conspiracy theorist I'm a
conspiracy realist I say we go where the
facts take us now there's also up the
second phase of the opposition to trump
since the Russian collusion delusion has
essentially collapsed down around their
ears you may have seen some of the seeds
of this I suspect you'll hear more of it
the president's crazy he's out of his
mind he's non compos mentis he's not
able to discharge his duties I've known
him almost 40 years he's the same person
he's ever been
is he eccentric most definitely so was
Franklin Roosevelt
so was Theodore Roosevelt go back and
read what they said about Teddy an
egomaniac a lightweight a braggart one
of our greatest presidents Lincoln was
considered to be eccentric slept in a
bed with a man all of our presidents
have changed the presidency within their
own image Trump has a unique style is
not a cookie cutter blow-dried polling
fueled career politician he's a force of
nature he is a natural phenomena he has
his own leadership style if that style
gets you 200 more points in the stock
market and 2 million new jobs well I
like it but the seeds of this entire
narrative that the president is mentally
unbalanced I believe be manifestly
untrue based on all evidence both
anecdotal personal and now medical is
based on a 25th amendment strategy being
promulgated by some that he be removed
now this is based on the intractable
opposition as I said of the deep state
Dwight Eisenhower called them the
military-industrial complex how can it
be that Robert Gates would be a cabinet
member and Secretary of Defense for both
George Bush and Barack Obama if their
policies are so different
why is as I said earlier Guantanamo
still open why do we have the same
people at the second and third levels of
the Central Intelligence Agency now that
we had under the two previous presidents
no it's very simple and I can explain it
to you
you see Hillary Clinton promised these
folks an expansion of a proxy war in
Syria I'm sorry but I see no winners in
Syria Assad propped up propping up
Hezbollah
Hamas and being propped up by the
Russians is certainly no friend of ours
or of human rights Isis on the other
side propped up by the Saudis whose
involvement in 9/11 is the subject of
legislation in which they don't want to
be sued they're not our friends you have
a hundred or more small subs ax X of
terrorist fanatics no I'm sorry this is
not worth one drop of American blood not
one borrowed American dollar we have
seen graphically in Libya what happens
when you topple a regime with American
bomber planes without thinking through
the implications if you can look at the
videos of the slave markets in which
African Americans are being sold as
slaves well they are chilling to say the
least
so the intractable opposition to Trump
is based in many cases because of his
unwillingness to expand the war Trump
was not only the law and order candidate
from a rhetorical point of view
certainly but he was also the peace
candidate does he have any illusions
about the evil of the Russian system
does he think vitomir Putin is a good
guy absolutely not but when the other
folks in the world such as the Russians
have thermonuclear weapons a dialog with
them is probably a good idea a war over
Syria which is much closer
geographically if one will look at a map
is probably not a good idea
because our inherent national interests
there are not clear and now what you
have going on before our very eyes is
the beginning of the collapse of an
illegitimate effort to reverse what they
could not do in the 2016 election we now
know almost certainly and will certainly
get more information shortly that the
entire claim of Russian collusion
and the unconstitutional and illegal
surveillance of the Republican candidate
for president and his top associates
including yours truly is based on a lie
it is based on a fabrication a dossier
that is not based in truth because
Donald Trump did not daily with
prostitutes and watch them urinate on a
bed in Russia it didn't happen but that
document you've got to give those guys
at fusion GPS credit they sold the same
information three times the three
different buyers first the Republicans
Paul singer the hedge fund manager Marco
Rubio his candidate for president and
then Hillary Clinton and the Democratic
National Committee and finally sadly
incredibly the FBI and it is that
document under which this administration
the previous administration went to the
FISA Court and asked for permission to
surveil Trump and his associates and in
July of last year they they were stunned
when initially their request was
rejected now it's important to
understand that under the FISA Court
rules there need be no probable cause
the government doesn't say we want to
spy on John Smith because we have
evidence that he's involved in treason
or we could believe he's involved in
corruption they can spy on you simply
because they want to and ninety-nine
percent of the government requests that
go to the FISA Court are rubber-stamped
and the surveillance is undertaken we
now know that the highest level
officials in the Obama NSA would back to
the FISA Court to a different judge
never acknowledged to the second judge
that the previous judge had turned down
their request because these proceedings
are all secret and they got illegitimate
permission to surveil Trump on the basis
of fake evidence of the dossier this I
think will be proven shortly so what you
had was a collusion by the highest
levels of the intelligence community in
the United States interested in an
expansion of the war in Syria convinced
that had they had a choice between
Hillary Clinton and say Jeb Bush that
that expended proxy war would have been
in the bag
desperate to dislodge this president who
they're shocked one to begin with this
is a coup d'etat and the idea having
failed with their Russian argument as I
said is a 25th amendment proceeding now
now how does the 25th amendment work
well you would need a majority of the
president's cabinet and the vice
president to agree that the president is
no longer mentally capable of
discharging his or her duties and then
the president would have under the
Constitution the right to take that to
either result either leave office or to
appeal it an appeal that goes to the US
House of Representatives under the
control of speaker Paul Ryan such a
strategy may sound far-fetched to some
but it cannot work without a backdrop of
hysteria built up by the folks at oh I
don't know CNN that the president is
mentally unbalanced and it will be the
next phase of the efforts to dislodge
this president who threatens business as
usual but a more chilling aspect of what
we see going on in direct contrast to
the tradition of debate and free speech
here at the
a union is an effort to put the
toothpaste back in the tube because as I
say 2016 was the year in which the
mainstream media lost their monopoly
stranglehold on political dissemination
of political information and the the
attention of the internet opened the
door to a broader and less controllable
means pardon me alternative media left
right and center so now what you see is
an effort to censor those on the
Internet left Google Facebook Twitter
Amazon this I think flies exactly in the
face of American tradition if you're
going to be the town square well then
everybody has to have access to the town
square I'm opposed to censorship of any
voice right left and center it doesn't
matter where you are the wackiest
far-out leftist or whether you are a
right-wing nut you ought to have a
chance to speak and be heard I am one
who has been banned for life at Twitter
I like to sue them but they may be out
of business before I can get there is it
coincidental then that they shut off the
president's Twitter feed for 11 minutes
was it coincidental that the journalist
Julian Assange is Twitter feed went down
and suddenly popped back up more
recently was it an accident to somebody
spill coke on the keyboard and that's
what made Sean Hannity's Twitter feed
disappear or are they playing games with
us
they have First Amendment
responsibilities they have
what I would consider to be antitrust
responsibilities and then they have the
other problem which is people who want
to have a robust dialogue will pick up
and go elsewhere they'll go to other net
alternatives where you can have a
dialogue one of the things that I think
is most interesting that we have just
gone through is a fight in our country
over net neutrality almost everything
you've been told about this is wrong yes
we had net neutrality under Barack Obama
for the providers Comcast AT&T Verizon
they had to give equal access to
everybody but never for the content
providers they can defame you they can
block you they can ignore you and they
can censor you they can literally erase
you from history and they were
unfettered true net neutrality requires
that everyone have an equal voice and
the new rules will lend themselves to
that now we have mr. Pompeo the CIA
director saying well the Russians are
going to interfere in the 2018 election
having been able to produce no evidence
whatsoever that they interfered in any
meaningful way in the 2016 elections I
wonder on what he bases this information
now some of you may not know but I'm
being sued in the District of Columbia
courts by a group named project
democracy which is a front group for the
Barack Obama folks and Obama based group
and the nature of their allegation
against me is that I worked with the
Russians to hack the Democratic National
Committee's emails and give the
information to WikiLeaks
not only is there no evidence of any of
that none of it is true there will be
very hard-pressed to prove it in court
if we get that far but what interests me
is this most recent week president's
lawyers filed a motion in court in
essence saying that given the New York
Times versus United States case the
famous Pentagon Papers case the
publication of classified information by
a journalistic organization is not a
crime
that's what journalists do if you're
going to bust Julian Assange well then
you've got to bust the New York Times
and The Washington Post and The Wall
Street Journal and many others who have
had enormous scoops by obtaining from
sources from whistleblowers classified
government information and publishing it
it is the role of a free press it may be
inconvenient it may be embarrassing to
the government but it is most definitely
not illegal but how can it be that
Donald Trump was being sued whose
campaign is being sued along with me in
this courtroom
his lawyers assert to the court that
there is no violation of the law and
therefore there can be no conspiracy if
the you can't conspire to to commit a
crime at the same time mr. Pompeo and
mr. sessions the attorney general are
arguing that a son should be extradited
to the United States and tried for the
crime of publishing classified
information
no you cannot have it both ways
assertions that I knew in advance that
Julian Assange would publish Hillary
Clinton's emails are false other than to
say I can read and he said it in a dozen
interviews and I did retweet what he
said the idea that I had advance
knowledge for example of John Podesta is
email
I never said that but I did read the
Panama papers in January of 2016
outlining his shady business dealings in
Eastern Europe including Russia and I
did say that his time in the barrel
would come meaning those would come
under public scrutiny as the business
dealings of my longtime associate Paul
Manafort did so there is no evidence
whatsoever on the other hand this
lawsuit is a great fundraising device
for these folks which is why I think it
is alive on perhaps a fishing expedition
which will lead exactly nowhere the
point I guess is to bring it all back is
to say that censorship is the last step
in this effort to discredit and
destabilize a president who is
revitalizing the American economy I
don't think the 25th amendment narrative
will work I don't think in the end that
censorship will work because free men
and free women like free speech I don't
think the toothpaste will be put back
into the tube we like our Twitter feed
or our Facebook posts or our presence on
gab or mines or any other number of
coming social media outlets gone are the
days when if the three networks said
something didn't happen or they just
didn't cover it well it didn't happen
then it was like a tree falling in the
forest no I think we're going to have a
robust debate and I'm ready to have it
and now I am more than happy to take any
and all of your questions thank you
well thank you so much and that
incredibly thought-provoking speech just
before we open it up to questions from
the audience
I'll ask a couple of questions myself if
that's okay
so you're known for saying that it's
better to be infamous than never be
famous it's all in the current era of
social media and hashtags where a
reputation really is permanent do you
think there's ever a time when this
wouldn't be the case I think they didn't
you're fast-paced mass media of today in
which cable television alone brings you
hundreds of stations where there are
magazines about every single discipline
whether it's go-karts or crochet that
there is an enormous competition for our
attention if you cannot be interesting
if you cannot be flamboyant if you
cannot be plunging then you won't be
noticed at all and you can have no
impact whatsoever if you're not
entertaining if you're not engaging I'm
mindful of the criticism of my good
friend Alex Jones I don't agree with
Alex on everything and he certainly
doesn't agree with me but he's not an
actor he's a true believer and he uses
drama and sarcasm and a parody to make
his point and the fact that he uses them
allows him to get literally millions of
viewers there are more people watching
him online without the expensive
overhead of a cable news network than
some of the very best names in cable and
is about having an audience if you want
to have an impact so have I had an
occasional shall we say three martini
tweet that I regret yeah probably but on
the whole I think as I said earlier the
only thing worse than being wrong is
being boring fair enough okay so those
who've watched in that fix documentary
get me Roger stone will know that you
have a tattoo of Nixon on your back I do
which you've said remind you of his
resilience what do you think the
American people today and people around
the world today actually can learn from
Nixon well I I still continue to believe
that Nixon was both very great and very
flawed he got us a strategic arms
limitation agreement with the Russians
he ended the war in Vietnam and a much
faster pace than the Pentagon wanted
he opened the door to China but more
importantly then skillfully played the
Chinese and the Russians off against
each other in the interests of peace he
desegregated the public schools in the
United States without bloodshed or
violence no was not Lyndon Johnson nor
his predecessor John F Kennedy he
launched the war on cancer he
desegregated the the trade unions he
gave us federal revenue sharing whereas
our tax dollars rather than being spent
in Washington would be refunded back to
the local levels for local governments
to fund he also launched the ignominious
completely failed and racist war on
drugs
he also closed the gold window and took
us off the gold standard he also gave us
wage and price controls there among his
most egregious mistakes he was not a man
with a fixed ideology he had some issues
on which his views would be considered
to be to the left he had other issues on
which his views could be considered to
be to the right he had an uncanny
ability to sound like a conservative
when it was time to get nominated he had
the ability to sound like a centrist
when it was time to get elected the 1958
Civil Rights Act the first major piece
of civil rights legislation in our
country would not have passed had
Richard Nixon not gone out and rounded
up a few Republican vote
at the request of dr. Martin Luther King
he tripled the amount of money we spend
on black colleges he he increased by 700
percent the amount the Department of
Justice spent for civil rights law
enforcement but in that crucial moment
in which dr. King was arrested in
Alabama in 1960 when he was suggested
that he call the judge and call mrs.
King he failed to do so in the great
John F Kennedy who I also believe was a
very great president for different
reasons did make that call and history
turned out to be quite different because
of it
but the point to come back to Nixon is
that what I admired in him and he was in
this very room almost 20 years ago I
listened to every word of it in
preparation for tonight was not an
ideology or a political philosophy in
fact the fact that he is on my back a
tattoo about the size of a grapefruit
right between my shoulder blades
making me the only man you know with a
dick on the front and the back is a
personal reminder every day when I get
up that in life when things don't go
your way when you lose something you
were counting on winning when your plans
collapse and you are defeated when you
are disappointed and dejected and you
hit a low you have an obligation to get
yourself up off the ground can get back
in the fight the story of Nixon is one
of persistence it's one of resilience
it's one of indestructibility he did
great things he made great mistakes but
he never quit a man he said
is not finished when he is defeated he
is only finished when he quits thank you
and say moving on from the politics of
the past the politics of today at the
start of your speech tonight he pointed
out false claims that have been made by
former presidents what do you make of
Trump's claim that he will build a wall
well I think you well I think he will
build a wall the wall has become
symbolically far more important than the
actual wall itself but he believes and I
agree if you do not have a border you do
not have a country just the enforcement
of our current immigration laws just the
enforcement of our current border laws
have cut illegal immigration across our
southern border by almost 70 almost 80
percent seventy eight percent prior to
that we were just not enforcing the law
we do need comprehensive immigration
reform we do need to figure out a way
that those who have been waiting their
turn those who have been going through
the steps are not cheated by those who
seek to run ahead of them but this wall
will be built in my opinion I think that
one of the things about him that is
surprising conventional Washington is
the notion that actually does what he
says he's going to do it's kind of
unheard of in politics many times
politicians of both parties make all
kinds of terrific claims but then
nothing really changes things stay
pretty much the same Trump is not like
that and I think people will hold him to
that standard therefore I believe the
wall will ultimately be paid for and
built I am one unlike say my friend Ann
Coulter who would work out something for
on the daca issue in return for greater
border security and an end to chain
migration and other immigration reforms
politics is at its best about compromise
and
public policy we have reached a point in
Washington where people say they want to
make a deal say they're interested in
some kind of trade off but they really
aren't I'm still hopeful that that can
be done thank you so one final question
for me before we open up to the audience
you've recently claimed that you want
Hulk Hogan to run for US Senate in
Florida is that true and on the flip
side how do you feel about liberals
lobbying April Winfrey to run for
president well as I said in my remarks I
think that any time a candidate can come
to a race for public office from a
discipline other than politics whether
it's entertainment in the case of Hulk
Hogan because what he is is an
entertainer I can think of two other
entertainers who'd become president one
was Ronald Reagan the other one of
course was Donald Trump Trump had 15
seasons of a network television show and
that network television show not only
drove his identification but if you come
back and think about it
look at the way he looks in The
Apprentice perfectly lit perfectly
coiffed high back chair being decisive
now I know elitist will say oh that's
reality TV a lot of folks I know look at
the news and they don't think that's
reality TV they just see it all
seamlessly as information Trump was in
the beauty pageant business he was in
the television business he was even in
the wrestling promotion business so he
too was an entertainer now I don't know
whether Hulk Hogan whose real name is
Terry Bollea who is a registered
Republican lives in my home state of
Florida has any interest in running for
public office but I did see an interview
with him on TMZ and when they said to
him well this fellow Roger stone thinks
she should run for the Senate are you
interested his answer was won't he tell
you this if I ran I would win that's a
guy with the future
and just going back to the second
question then how do you feel about
April Winfrey look Oprah has enormous
national name ID and she has a following
and there are many many Americans who
admire her at the same time her
perspective candidacy at this point
would be at my point in my view at a
high-water mark
she has come under no criticism for the
things that she has said and done that
and that is part and parcel of a
campaign I continue to believe and I'll
say it here yet again today
that Michelle Obama will be the nominee
of the Democratic Party in 2020 that
she'll be a very formidable and viable
and tough candidate that she and her
husband are far more popular in the
Democratic Party and have a much greater
hold on the US Democratic Party than the
Clintons and if she should become a
candidate I think she would be their
frontrunner thank you okay I think now
is the perfect time to open up to some
questions from the audience so if you
have a question that you'd like to ask
my sustained please raise your hand and
wait to be selected and could we go to
the question just over here Thanks
thanks for coming I just want to ask
Brett something you just said in that
last question you mentioned as
entertainers Donald Trump and Ronald
Reagan but Reagan of course was the
Governor of California before he was the
president he had you know political
government experience so I guess the
question is do you think there is any
value to government experience I mean
you know Donald Trump as an outsider you
know that has helped him in some ways
but it seems to be hurting him and
actually passing major legislation and
working you know with Congress
whereas Reagan you know had that
government experience had a good
relationship with you know Tip O'Neill
and other people so do you think that is
valuable in any way well of course the
more career politicians are discredited
the less political experience is a
commodity that is necessary if our
politicians of both parties had produced
greater economic growth greater
prosperity greater opportunity greater
freedom well then I think there would
never have been an opening compartment
for someone like Donald Trump in
Reagan's case interestingly enough after
only a year as governor he was a viable
candidate for president people don't do
not recognize an airbrushed from his
biography is the fact that he did run
for the 1968 convention nomination
against both Richard Nixon and New York
Governor Nelson Rockefeller this was
based on both of his stature in the
public and the fact that people knew who
he was what I would predict quite
differently is what you will now have in
2020 is a spate of billionaires who have
no government experience Tom Styer comes
to mind as an example maybe even Mark
Zuckerberg although don't think we're
electing a president who only wears a
hoodie it could be wrong about that but
I do think that this is the new model
and therefore all the rules as I said
the beginning that I held to be
absolutely true may not be true at all
on the other hand it's hard to judge the
Trump presidency on the basis of one
year so far very good and I think he is
well-positioned but the success of other
outside politics candidates in many ways
they're going to rise or fall on Trump
so the real answer is it remains to be
seen well so if I could just answer one
of the questions you had about why
Guantanamo Bay is still open and my
impressions that's because this is a
Republican opposition and fear-mongering
that prisoners would escape if they are
brought back to the United States
you know mainland sorry you said you
know why Oh in your examples of
political elites not got anything done
you mentioned the
or in there you were like Oh why's
Guantanamo Bay still open I would say
that was because of Republican
opposition over eight years of Obama's
presidency trying to do that from day
one they wouldn't let him because of you
know fear-mongering and race baiting in
certain instances saying that oh if
these prisoners were brought back to you
know the mainland they would escape I
don't think he I don't think he really
made any effort I think what happens is
for any chief executive is the folks in
your security apparatus and your
intelligence apparatus come in and tell
you why that was a great campaign plank
but why you can't do it I am as
disappointed in Guantanamo under the
bushes as I am under Obama and as I
indicated the the our continued presence
in Syria is disturbing to me the fact
that we're sending more troops to
Afghanistan I think these are errors now
how do you explain it
the president has surrounded them with a
large number of people who do not
support his policies did not support his
worldview and probably didn't vote for
him that's what I meant when I said they
seek to co-opt you I also mean what I
meant when I said it's amazing how much
he's gotten done given some of the
intractable opposition among the elites
of both parties and even some in his own
administration I gave you the example of
obsessions and Pompeyo on the question
of Assange which I'm happy to talk about
the other one which is pardon me a
burning issue in the United States not
so much here is state legalized
marijuana twenty-nine states in America
have legalized some form of medicinal
marijuana the president who's never even
seen marijuana in my opinion a man who
literally has never taken a drink not
even a glass of wine has never had
alcohol in his life largely based on the
fact that his brother who was really his
idol and to the
he was very close star athlete
died early of cirrhosis and therefore
Donald Trump has never either taken a
drink nor is he countenanced drinking
and drunkenness among the people that
works for them for him he's not a fan
that said he made it very clear in the
campaign that this should be a decision
left to the people in the States and if
the states decide they want to have some
form of medicinal marijuana that that he
would support that incidentally
marijuana is now being used to treat
PTSD and other illnesses quite
successfully by governments as diverse
as Israel and others and now suddenly
you have Jeff Sessions who has reversed
one of the policies of the Obama
administration that I supported which
was the notion that the federal
government would stand down in those
states where the state had legalized
marijuana and set up a system for its
distribution and taxation and so on this
in my opinion is an egregious mistake
and I'm hopeful both from a public
policy point of view and from the
political point of view that the
president will tell jeff sessions to cut
the okay if we can go to the hand
just over in the corner of that hi there
I'm what advice would you give Michelle
Obama to beat Donald Trump in a
presidential election well you really
are trying to get me fired
the country I think is fairly evenly
divided but to game plan a presidential
campaign
three years in advances it's a virtual
impossibility in politics a month is a
lifetime for example we didn't know that
there was an effort in which the Russian
government bribed people in the United
States in order to get approval for the
sale to a Russian state-owned energy
company of 20% of our strategic uranium
we didn't know that the Clinton
Foundation took a hundred and forty five
million dollars from the directors of
that state-owned company we didn't know
that Bill Clinton got a half million
dollars speaking fee all prior to the
approval of that transaction we didn't
know that the Justice Department was
actively investigating those bribes and
was aware of them at the time the deal
went through we didn't know that mr.
it's right that mr. Comey actually
brought the uranium samples to the to
the Soviet the former Soviet Union for
inspection which in my view was a symbol
that the bribes would not be prosecuted
and that this transaction would go
through all of that has been very
controversial and newsworthy and in many
ways began to shift the balance in this
epic political struggle were having but
none of it did we know six months ago so
what the election of 2020 will be about
and what the issues will be and how
strategically you would defeat Donald
Trump or you would defeat Michelle Obama
it's it's almost impossible to know I do
think that she can command the
Democratic nomination I do think that
the idea of a woman president in the
United States is a popular idea just not
that
if we can go to the hand in the corner
over that thank you for your talk you
discussed the issue of co-option of
presidents by certain advisors that
surround them you also talked about
particularly an issue of Jeff Sessions
pushing for the prosecution of Julian
Assange you also talked about Donald
Trump having been president for only a
year but achieving success and despite
of that but I would argue that that are
certain issues Donald Trump formed as
cornerstones of his campaign which he
could have enacted on day one without
any real opposition legal or otherwise
which instead have turned into
protracted battles I'm thinking of the
repealing daca in particular so my
question really is that Donald Trump
based his campaign on an idea to drain
the swamp do you think that the swamp
has drained him I think that it is an
epic struggle I think the fact that he
came to office not a career politician
did not give him a vantage point that
previous presidents have had Richard
Nixon had served as eight years as
Dwight Eisenhower's vice president he
could tell you the hundred most
important jobs in government what they
did and why they needed to be filled
first Lyndon Johnson had been the Senate
Majority Leader and John Kennedy's vice
president he understood the machinery of
government one of the dangers now in the
modern presidency is the cocoon our
presidents get in and it is sometimes
hard to know what they know and when
they know it so I am disappointed in
some appointees I make no bones about
that there are people in this cabinet
who I would not have appointed but I
think that given that and this
active campaign of co-option I still
think he has achieved much I'm not
prepared to declare you know that he has
failed on the basis of a year in fact I
think he has largely succeeded
let's as he would say let's see what
happens I think we've got time for one
more question before we have to wrap up
see if we can go to the hand just over
there
thank you very much my question is
because you like I work at several
decades in the campaigning and then
especially in viang you also mentioned
about the current like a new media
versus the traditional media using the
campaign see so the current like
technological advancement and the bigger
data and then also the usage of the new
media
how would you I would like to know your
perception about it is it like an you
think is a advancement or is it like a
positive thing or you also be it's very
definitely a positive thing here's why
one we had a monolithic and totally
centralized media three major television
networks unless you were a person of
enormous wealth or unless you could tap
into enormous wealth you couldn't
possibly be elected to public office
because you couldn't afford the cost of
communications broadcast television is
extraordinarily expensive cable
television which was more targetable was
still very expensive you could run for
Congress today in the United States by
geo-targeting social media spending a
fraction of what you had to spend twenty
years ago and still win it's efficient
it's extraordinarily efficient you can
target the voters not only
geographically but based on what they're
interested in based on how old
they are based on their other previous
social media activities and therefore if
you're running on a a particular issue
regardless of what it is you can
pinpoint and target it this is a this is
a revolution that has been that has
changed everything
so previously when and I don't do that
much candidate work I've written five
books and I do a daily broadcast for
Infowars I have a website the stone cold
truth and I prefer to analyze politics
now I will help candidates who I like or
who I think are outstanding but it used
to be when people would come to me who I
thought were highly qualified and
attractive and articulate and who would
be great in public office but they told
me they could only raise a quarter of a
million dollars I would tell them forget
about it cannot be done that's now
changed and if the system remains as it
is if we have unfettered access to
social media then I think it the the
revolutionising of our politics will
continue thank you so unfortunate that's
all we've got time for this evening but
if you could all join me and saying huge
thank you to mr. or just staying
[Applause]
if I don't do this people get really
upset thank you very much
you